---
layout: post
title: "Disney+"
description: "Disney+ is launching Nov 12 and I'm incredibly bullish on its prospects."
keywords: "disney, netflix, ott, over the top, streaming"
image_url: "/assets/static/images/disney-plus.png" 
category:
tags: ["#product"]
---
{% include setup %}
Yesterday the internet blew up after Disney's announcement of a new series, [The Mandalorian](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mandalorian), that would be available as a part of their new streaming service, Disney+. I watched the [trailer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aOC8E8z_ifw) and as expected it hit all the right Star Wars nostalgia points. The show itself wasn't what stood out. Instead it was the closing scene where Disney highlights what Disney+ includes: Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star Wars, and National Geographic.

<amp-img src="{{ IMG_PATH }}disney-plus.png" alt="Disney+ ownership" width="1256" height="521" layout="responsive"></amp-img>

People following the "streaming wars" know how many properties Disney owns but this is a shot to everyone else that Disney owns a ton of content. It's an incredibly strong move and makes me more and more bullish about Disney and the Disney+ offering. I'd be shocked if they don't quickly rise to the top ranking. It's a bit difficult to pull up to date subscriber numbers by service but I found some data from April 2018 indicating that HBO is ahead of Netflix which is ahead of Amazon Prime. I don't know what the latest numbers are but I can easily imagine Disney quickly competing with the top 3. I wouldn't even be surprised if they surpass every other streaming service - they have content that runs the gamut and the price is more than fair. I currently own a small amount of Disney stock but to put my money where my mouth is I plan on purchasing more this week.

<amp-img src="{{ IMG_PATH }}streaming-subscribers-april-2018.png" alt="Number of streaming subscribers as of April 2018" width="762" height="427" layout="responsive"></amp-img>
<p class="caption">Source: <a href="https://www.vox.com/2018/4/19/17257942/amazon-prime-100-million-subscribers-hulu-hbo-tinder-members">vox.com</a></p>
